---
fip: 001
title: Reduce Voting Period to 5 days
author: Fetch Foundation (developer@fetch.ai)
description: The voting period for governance proposals is currently 14 days. This proposal suggests reducing this to 5 days.
discussions-to:
status: Voting
type: Standards
created: 2022-07-13
requires:
Withdrawal-reason:
review-deadline: 2022-07-18
last-call: 2022-07-17
author-response-wait-time: 1 hour
---
## Abstract

Reduce the voting duration on governance proposals from 14 days to 5 days.

## Motivation

Currently, it is difficult to go through with time sensitive proposals due to the relatively long 14 days governance voting period.

## Specification

The voting period for governance proposals is currently 14 days (the network parameter “votingparams” is currently set to `voting_period: 14 days`). This proposal is suggesting this period be reduced to 5 days (network parameter “votingparams” changed to `voting_period: 5 days`).

Voting parameters refer to the maximum amount of time that a proposal can accept votes before the voting period concludes. This is currently 14 days. If the proposal vote does not reach quorum (ie. 40% of the network's voting power is participating) before this time, the governance proposal's outcome will not be considered as valid. In general, voters are also able to change their vote any number of times before the voting period ends.

## Rationale

- Based on the previous governance proposals, we have observed that the majority of the time, most people cast their votes within the first 5 days of the voting period.
- A voting period of 5 days would help push time sensitive proposals through more efficiently in contrast to the relatively long 14 days wait time.
- It is becoming standard within the IBC ecosystem to have a voting period of 5 days ([Regen Network](https://forum.regen.network/discussion/3762-governance-window-repost-from-discourse-forum?comment=15409), [Cosmos Network](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/10014), [Osmosis Network](https://www.mintscan.io/osmosis/proposals/183)) as this helps move proposals through faster while giving enough time for users to read the necessary material and make a decision.
